## The dawn of the great web

** *Warning, what you about to read may affect your future…**

Original protocols of the Internet, such as: TCP/IP, DNS, URL, and HTTP/S have brought the web to a stale point. Considering all the benefits that these protocols have produced for the initial development of the web; along with them, they have brought significant obstacles to the table.

> Introducing cyber: An inter-planetary search engine & a state of the art consensus computer, built with the help of go-IPFS and cosmos-SDK. Cyber introduces a protocol for provable communication between consensus computers of relevance. Based on a simple idea of content defined knowledge graphs generated by web3-agents via the use of cyberlinks - a simple, yet a powerful semantic construction for building a predictive model of the universe.

#### Our values
I could theoretically go straight to the point (and if you are eager to know more, simply skip to the next section), but I think it is vital to state that values are what keeps the world spinning around (or rather what keeps it from spinning around the wrong way).

We do not believe in captchas. We do not believe in KYC. We do not believe in licensing and any other similar to the above-mentioned bullshit. We do believe in code. We believe in innovation and in making use of our knowledge to make the world a slightly better place for our children.

With that in mind, what I'm trying to say, is that cyber and cyb are not just technological results. They are much more. At its base lay the values of the team behind cyber. We hope that our project can re-create certain values of what we believe the blockchain paradigm stands for. With that said, we are open to communication and will be happy for any feedback on our code, on [our Github](https://github.com/cybercongress) and [our telegram channel](https://t.me/fuckgoogle).

#### The solution
I must say that there is no simple way to describe cyber without the use of technical jargon. Hence, below I may have substituted some technical words to draw out analogies. For more information, please visit our [Github](https://github.com/cybercongress) and see our [launch FAQ](https://github.com/cybercongress/launch-kit/blob/0.1.0/Launch%20FAQ.md) for more information.

To keep this somewhat short, I will not go into any details in this article, as per why, there are issues (technologically and ideologically) with the current web and how it infects us, similar to a virus in every aspect of our lives.

The web needs a change. blackbox intermediaries, such as: Google, Amazon or Facebook became religions. Information is tampered with. Cyber uses the already available brand-new web-stack to deliver the Great Web to everyone who wishes to join it. A true web-3 technology. The first of its kind. Allowing for a fair and an incentivized general-purpose search of real and relevant answers.

Within the network, web3-agents generate knowledge graphs with the use of what we call cyberlinks. A cyberlink is simply a link between two content-based links. This allows for a naturally semantic link, which is needed for the computation of relevance of subjects and objects within the knowledge graph.

IPFS provides significant benefits with regards to resource consumption. Cyber links and IPFS provide us with the superpowers that were inaccessible to previous architectures of general-purpose search engines.

We must agree on the things we do, and here is where cyber introduces a consensus computer, its implementation is a 64-bit Tendermint consensus computer of relevance for 64-byte string-space. The computer process the links, along with computation, storage and the bandwidth. Computation and storage in case of a basic relevance machine can be easily predicted based on bandwidth; but bandwidth requires a limiting mechanism.

#### The relevance machine
The relevance machine is in some way a mirror of the will of the universe that surrounds us. It enables a simple construction for the search mechanism via querying and delivering answers, based on the will of the agents building the knowledge graph.

Instead of deducting the meaning inside of the consensus computer (and returning to the blackbox principle), we have designed a system in which extraction of meaning is incentivized. This is achieved due to agents needing CYB tokens to express their will, based on which, the relevance machine can compute rank.

With the help of `Resource Credits` (RC) and an agents stake, we build a very simple bandwidth model. The principal goal of this model is to reduce the daily network growth to a given constant. This is done to accommodate validators with the ability to forecast any future investment into infrastructure. RC and recovery windows allow the network to determine bandwidth and its load.

The relevance machine works just like the human mind in that it neither - stores the past, nor the current full state, to maintain usefulness. Or more precisely, it remains: relevant. Always. As a result, the cybernomics of CYB tokens, serves not just as will-expression and spam-protection mechanisms. It also functions as an economics regulation tool that can align validators processing the knowledge graph, and as demand for market processing.

#### cyber~Rank
IPFS hashes (or content identifiers or CIDs) are vital for the network. CIDs as primary objects are robust in their simplicity. For every CID, cyber ~Rank is computed by a consensus computer without a single point of failure. cyber ~Rank is a CYB (token) weighted PageRank, with economic protection from sybil attacks, and self-centred voting. Every round the Merkle root of the rank tree is published. Consequently, every computer can prove to any other computer a relevance of value for a given CID. The rank is calculated by using the outgoing and the incoming weight of the current state of the staked tokens in the system, that are used to form the CIDs, and the current and previous ranks in the system.

Ironically, the ranking mechanism is based on none other but [the PageRank](http://ilpubs.stanford.edu:8090/422/1/1999-66.pdf) – yes, that was developed by Sergey Brin and Larry Page. The key problem with the original PageRank is that it wasn’t resistant to sybil attacks. However, a token-weighted PageRank is limited by a token-weighted bandwidth model, and does not inherit such problems as the native PageRank. It is resistant to sybil-attacks. The beauty behind the ranking mechanism is that it only accounts for the current intention of the agents and it encourages rank inflation of cyberlinks. At first, this might seem a bit unclear. But, it is vital for the system not to be interfered with (ensured by the agents stake against a CID) and is essential in order not to get cemented in the past. As new cyberlinks are continuously added, they dilute the rank of the already existing links proportionally. This means that this is a constantly self-evolving, mind-like mechanism.

#### Web-3 and DAO
We couldn't find a real web-3 browser (not a web2 based pseudo-tech), so we implemented our own. Cyb can be easily delivered from any P2P network. It allows embedding objects into snippets, which means that a web3-agent can interact with the search results directly… For example, you could buy items directly in cyb, and thanks to a transparent conversion, e-commerce can flourish and in turn - develop local markets. More so, those snippets can be interactive, meaning you could play a game, view a wallet balance, etc - directly from your browser.

Some of the donated funds to cyber will be run by an Aragon DAO. cyber doesn't just have a community-run fund, but also a DAO-managed blockchain, which functions under the Tendermint consensus algorithm with a standard governance module. Together allowing for a community-run governance mechanism for the fund and for the chain itself.

#### The unimaginable future
The future is unimaginable, but it has a shape. At its base lay information. The alchemy of today is being able to process that information.

Our proposed semantics of linking data offers a robust mechanism for predicting meaningful relations between objects by the consensus computer itself. The source-code of the relevance machine is open-source. Every bit of data accumulated by the consensus computer is available to anyone if one has the resources to process it.

Though the system presents the necessary utility to allow an alternative for a conventional search engine, it is not limited just to this use case. The system is extendable for numerous applications and makes it possible (for example) to design economically rational, self-owned robots, that can autonomously understand objects around them. It is also possible to construct cyberlinks with ’proof-of-location’ based on remarkable existing protocols such as Foam, hence creating a provable location linked object.

cyber allows for programmable semantics. Currently, the developers of successful apps have very limited ability to explain to Google how to structure search results in a better manner. The cyber approach gives this power back to developers. Developers are now able to target specific semantics cores and index their apps as they wish.

cyber allows for off-line search! IPFS makes it possible to easily retrieve a document from such an environment without a global internet connection. cyberd itself can be distributed by using IPFS. This creates the possibility for ubiquitous, off-line search!

*Don’t believe, don’t fear, don’t ask – cyber...*




